---
title: Multiple Clients
description: 'Configure your app to interact with multiple GraphQL APIs'
---

# Multiple Clients

Seamlessly interact with multiple GraphQL APIs.

## Default Client

If a single client is configured, it will be used by default.

In [Multiple Client Mode](#multiple-client-mode), the default client is inferred by either:
- The first configured client.
- Explicitly setting the client name to `default` in the Nuxt Configuration.

::alert{type="info"}
Only one client can be set as [default](/advanced/multiple-clients#default-client).
::

## Multiple Client Mode

When you have configured more than one client, The behavior of the module slightly changes and the pertinent client must be specified when using `nuxt-graphql-client`[Composables](/getting-started/composables) and when composing GraphQL Operations for the clients that aren't flagged as [default](#default-client).

### Configure multiple clients

Multiple clients can be configured by adding the `clients` key to the `graphql-client` property in public runtimeConfig.

The client names are inferred from the keys provided in the `clients` object.

[Available client options](/getting-started/configuration/#client-configuration)

```ts
import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt'

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-graphql-client'],

  runtimeConfig: {
    public: {
      'graphql-client': {
        clients: {
          default: 'https://api.spacex.land/graphql', // process.env.GQL_HOST
          github: {
            host: 'https://api.github.com/graphql', // process.env.GQL_GITHUB_HOST
            token: 'your_access_token', // process.env.GQL_GITHUB_TOKEN & process.env.GQL_GITHUB_TOKEN_NAME
          },
          countries: {
            host: 'https://countries.trevorblades.com/graphql', // process.env.GQL_COUNTRIES_HOST
            token: {
              name: 'X-Custom-Auth', // process.env.GQL_COUNTRIES_TOKEN_NAME
              value: 'your_access_token' // process.env.GQL_COUNTRIES_TOKEN
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

### Writing GraphQL Operations

When using multiple clients, you must specify the client that your GraphQL document is associated with.

There are two methods of associating a client:

1. Save the GraphQL Document ending with `<clientname>.gql|graphql`.

```graphql [nuxt-app/queries/example.github.gql]
query viewer {
    viewer {
        login
    }
}
```

Doing so will automatically link the query above to the client named `github`. This query will be executable in your app by simply calling `GqlViewer()`

::alert
This method takes precedence and overrides all others.
::

2. Place the GraphQL Documents in a folder of the same name as the client.

**ie:** Given `./nuxt_app/queries/spacex/launches.gql`

All GraphQL operations within `launches.gql` will automatically be linked to the client matching the name of the GraphQL document's parent directory ie: `spacex`.

3. Lastly, GraphQL documents which don't match any of the aforementioned conventions will be linked to the [default client](#default-client).
    


