---
title: Configuration
description: 'Configuration options for `nuxt-graphql-client`.'
---

`nuxt-graphql-client` can be configured via [runtime configuration](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/features/runtime-config) by using either the `gql` or `graphql-client` key.

## Options

- Defaults

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    'graphql-client':{
        watch: true,
        autoImport: true,
        functionPrefix: 'Gql',
        documentPaths: ['./'],
        preferGETQueries: false
    }
})
```

### `watch`

Enable hot reloading for GraphQL documents

### `autoImport`

Auto import functions based on the operation name of your queries & mutations

### `functionPrefix`

Prefix for auto imported functions

### `documentPaths`

Path to **external folder(s)** containing .gql or .graphql files.

Example: `['../shared/queries']`

::alert
Useful for mono repos.
::

### `preferGETQueries`

When enabled, all queries will be sent as GET requests. This flag can be overridden on a per-client basis.

## Code Generation

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    'graphql-client': {
        codegen: {
            silent: true,
            skipTypename: true,
            useTypeImports: true,
            dedupeFragments: true,
            onlyOperationTypes: true,
            disableOnBuild: false
        }
    }
})
```

### `silent`

Prevent GraphQL Code Generator from printing to console

### `skipTypename`

Prevent adding `__typename` to generated types.

### `useTypeImports`

Use `import type {}` rather than `import {}` when importing only types.

### `dedupeFragments`

Removes fragment duplicates. It is done by removing sub-fragments imports from fragment definition Instead - all of them are imported to the Operation node.

### `onlyOperationTypes`

Only generate the types for the operations in your GraphQL documents.
When set to true, only the types needed for your operations will be generated.
When set to false, all types from the GraphQL API will be generated.

### `disableOnBuild`

Disable Code Generation for production builds.

## Client configuration

::alert{type="warning"}
The [default client](/advanced/multiple-clients#default-client) overrides `GQL_HOST`.
::

- Type: **object**

Configure your app to interact with multiple GraphQL APIs. The name of each client is the key of the object provided.

The available options are:

### `host`

URL of the GraphQL API.

### `clientHost`

Specify a host to be used for client side requests.

### `introspectionHost`

Specify a host to be used for GraphQL Codegen introspection.

### `schema`

Specify the path to a GraphQL Schema file to be used for code generation. When omitted, the `host` will be used.

### `token`

Configure a token to be used for authentication.

This flag accepts either a string, or an object to further configure the token.

::code-group
```ts [Basic]
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            token: '<auth_token>'
        }
    }
}
```
```ts [Advanced]
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            token: {
                type: 'Bearer',
                name: 'Authorization',
                value: '<auth_token>'
            }
        }
    }
}
```
::

### `retainToken`

When enabled, this flag will force tokens set at config-level to be retained client-side.

By default, tokens set by `runtimeConfig` or `environment variables` only live server-side (for Code Generation & SSR requests).

[More information here](/advanced/authentication#retain-token-on-client-side)

### `proxyCookies`

Pass cookies from the browser to the GraphQL API in SSR mode.

::alert
Enabled by default.
::

### `preferGETQueries`

When enabled, all queries for this client will be sent as GET requests.

### `headers`

Configure default headers to be sent with each request on both client and server side. The `serverOnly` property
is used to declare headers that should only be applied on server-side. e.g.:

```ts
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            headers: {
                'X-CUSTOM-HEADER': '',
                serverOnly: {
                    'X-SERVER-ONLY': ''
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### `codegenHeaders`

Specify headers that should be applied during development code generation. This is useful in cases where various queries / mutations are only available based on authorization or when other special headers are passed.

```ts
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            codegenHeaders: {
                'X-CUSTOM-HEADER': ''
            }
        }
    }
}
```
