---
title: Configuration
description: 'Configuration options for `nuxt-graphql-client`.'
---

# Configuration

`nuxt-graphql-client` is configured by default to cover most use cases, this can be overridden by passing custom configuration to the `graphql-client` property in either [runtime configuration](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/features/runtime-config) or directly in `nuxt.config.ts`.

## Options

- Defaults

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    'graphql-client':{
        watch: true,
        autoImport: true,
        functionPrefix: 'Gql',
        documentPaths: ['./'],
        preferGETQueries: false
    }
})
```

### `watch`

  - default: `true`

Enable hot reloading for GraphQL documents

### `autoImport`

  - default: `true`

Auto import functions based on the operation name of your queries & mutations

### `functionPrefix`

  - default: `Gql`

Prefix for auto imported functions

### `documentPaths`

Path to **external folder(s)** containing .gql or .graphql files.

Example: `['../shared/queries']`

::alert
Useful for mono repos.
::

### `preferGETQueries`

  - default: `false`

When enabled, all queries will be sent as GET requests. This flag can be overridden on a per-client basis.

## Code Generation

Configuration for the GraphQL Code Generator, setting `codegen: false` disables codegen and results in limited TypeScript support.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    'graphql-client': {
        codegen: {
            silent: true,
            skipTypename: true,
            useTypeImports: true,
            dedupeFragments: true,
            onlyOperationTypes: true,
            avoidOptionals: false,
            disableOnBuild: false,
            maybeValue: 'T | null'
        }
    }
})
```

### `silent`

  - default: `true`

Prevent GraphQL Code Generator from printing to console

### `skipTypename`

  - default: `true`

Prevent adding `__typename` to generated types.

### `useTypeImports`

  - default: `true`

Use `import type {}` rather than `import {}` when importing only types.

### `dedupeFragments`

  - default: `true`

Removes fragment duplicates. It is done by removing sub-fragments imports from fragment definition Instead - all of them are imported to the Operation node.

### `onlyOperationTypes`

  - default: `true`

Only generate the types for the operations in your GraphQL documents.
When set to true, only the types needed for your operations will be generated.
When set to false, all types from the GraphQL API will be generated.

### `avoidOptionals`

  - default: `false`

Avoid using TypeScript optionals on types. See [GraphQL Code Generator documentation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/plugins/typescript/typescript#usage-examples) for more options

### `disableOnBuild`

  - default: `false`

Disable Code Generation for production builds.

### `maybeValue`

  - default: `"T | null"`

Allow to override the type value of `Maybe`. See [GraphQL Code Generator documentation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/plugins/typescript/typescript-operations#maybevalue) for more options

## Client configuration

::alert{type="warning"}
The [default client](/advanced/multiple-clients#default-client) overrides `GQL_HOST`.
::

- Type: **object**

Configure your app to interact with multiple GraphQL APIs. The name of each client is the key of the object provided.

The available options are:

### `host`

URL of the GraphQL API.

### `clientHost`

Specify a host to be used for client side requests.

### `introspectionHost`

Specify a host to be used for GraphQL Codegen introspection.

### `schema`

Specify the path to a GraphQL Schema file to be used for code generation. When omitted, the `host` will be used.

### `token`

Configure a token to be used for authentication.

This flag accepts either a string, or an object to further configure the token.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',

            // Basic
            token: '<auth_token>',

            // Advanced
            token: {
                type: 'Bearer',
                name: 'Authorization',
                value: '<auth_token>'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### `retainToken`

  - default: `false`

When enabled, this flag will force tokens set at config-level to be retained client-side.

By default, tokens set by `runtimeConfig` or `environment variables` only live server-side (for Code Generation & SSR requests).

[More information here](/advanced/authentication#retain-token-on-client-side)

### `proxyCookies`

  - default: `true`

Pass cookies from the browser to the GraphQL API in SSR mode.

::alert
Enabled by default.
::

### `proxyHeaders`

Headers to be passed from the browser to the GraphQL API in SSR mode.

### `corsOptions`

Specify CORS options to be used for client-side requests.

```ts [Type Signature]
{ 
    corsOptions: {
      mode: "cors" | "navigate" | "no-cors" | "same-origin"
      credentials: "include" | "omit" | "same-origin"
    }
}
```

### `preferGETQueries`

  - default: `false`

When enabled, all queries for this client will be sent as GET requests.

### `headers`

Configure default headers to be sent with each request on both client and server side. The `serverOnly` property
is used to declare headers that should only be applied on server-side. e.g.:

```ts
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            headers: {
                'X-CUSTOM-HEADER': '',
                serverOnly: {
                    'X-SERVER-ONLY': ''
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### `codegenHeaders`

Specify headers that should be applied during development code generation. This is useful in cases where various queries / mutations are only available based on authorization or when other special headers are passed.

```ts
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            codegenHeaders: {
                'X-CUSTOM-HEADER': ''
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### `tokenStorage`

  - default: `true`

Configuration for the token storage.

```ts [Type Signature]
{ 
    name: 'gql:<clientname>'
    mode: 'cookie' | 'localStorage'
    cookieOptions: {
        path: string
        domain: string
        maxAge: number
        secure: boolean
        httpOnly: boolean
        sameSite: 'lax' | 'strict' | 'none'
    }
}
```

### `fetchOptions`

Specify additional fetch options to configure the GraphQL client.

[More information here](https://github.com/jasonkuhrt/graphql-request#configuration)

```ts
'graphql-client': {
    clients: {
        default: {
            host: '<graphql_api>',
            fetchOptions: {
                errorPolicy: 'ignore' // Ignore incoming errors and resolve like no errors occurred
            }
        }
    }
}
```
